sudah terlalu banyak buruh yang menderita sebelum ada omnibus law, jangan tambah penderitaan mereka
aaa ikut senang dan terharu yang dprd nya pada setuju menolak omnibus law ini semangat semangat
anjay mantap djiwa
bagi mereka, omnibus law adalah undang-undang yang menindas rakyat biasa. tapi bagi para petinggi, omnibus law adalah cara untuk membuka lapangan kerja dengan memberi keuntungan pada para investor.

Function Analysis of Sidewalk as a Social Area for Pedestrian-only (a Case Study for Central Business District Ciledug)

Syakil Ahmad

The rapid development of a city or an area must be accompanied with good regulation and management. A good regulation and management of a city should consider several aspects: healthiness, safety, and comfortability for the users. Infrastructures, in this case pedestrian sidewalks, become a crucial factor on the development of a city or area. But, the rapid development of CBD Ciledug area isn't complemented with a good management. The pedestrian sidewalk here is  merely facilitated and far from proper. The purpose of this research is to find out the function, condition, and social activities on CBD Ciledug pedestrian sidewalks. This research also aims to find out how the social activities should be conducted according to context and regulations in the area. The research method used by the writer is Mixed Methods, arranged in a descriptive manner with qualitative and quantitative data approach. Research shows that pedestrian sidewalks that's just facilitated enough without control and management worsened the condition and got its function shifted. Behind the worse pedestrian sidewalks condition, various social activities could be found there. The connection and interaction that's done by several objects there kept the area alive. By looking at this context and condition, social activities in the pedestrian sidewalks should be preserved. But physically, functional objects in the pedestrian sidewalks must be maintained and managed in such a way that they won't cause friction between the user.
